azure_core_data_concepts.md, before:

# Core Data Concepts in Azure
## Core Data Concepts and Roles
- [Microsoft Azure Data Fundamentals Certification (DP-900)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/credentials/certifications/resources/study-guides/dp-900)
    - Relational data, non-relational data, transactional workload, analytical workload
    - 60 exam questions
    - Scenario-based single answer questions, arrange in the correct sequence, drag and drop, mark review.
    - Core data concepts (15-20%), non-relational, and relational data (50-60%), analytics workload (25-30%)
- With the Azure portal, you can build, manage, and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments. Create custom dashboards for an organized view of resources and configure accessibility options for an optimal experience.
- Relational databases typically hold tables represented by rows and columns. Databases that hold tables in this form are called relational databases.
    - Structure data is typically tabular data that is represented by rows and columns in a database.
    - Typically stored in a relational database such as SQL Server or Azure SQL Database
- A key-value store is similar to a relatioinal tables, except that each row can have any number of columns.
- Not all data is structured or even semi-structured.
    - Audio, and video files, and binary data files might not have a specific structure --> unstructured data.
    - It can be stored in Azure Blob storage, Azure Cosmos DB
    - Provisioning: setting-up the database server

- Normalization is the process by which your data is split into a number of well-defined tables, with few columns each, and with references one tables to another.
    - A narrow table is a table with few columns
- A transaction is defined as a sequence of operations that are atomic and the transactional database must adhere to the ACID properties:
    - Transactional systems are often high-volume, sometimes handling many millions of transactions in a single day. The data being processed has to be accessible very quickly. 
    - The work performed by transactional systems is often referred to as Online Transactional Processing (OLTP).
    - Atomicity guarantees that each transaction is treated as a single unit, which either succeeds completely, or fails completely.
    - Consistency ensurses that a transaction can only take the data in the database from one valid state to another.
    - Isolation ensurese the concurrent executioin of transactions leaves the database in the same state that would have been obtained if the transaction were executed sequentially.
    Durability guarantees that once a transaction has been committed, it will be remain commited even if there's system failure such as a power outage or crash.
- Batch processing is suitable for handling large datasets efficiently. Stream processing is intended for individual records or micro-batches consisting of few records.
    - Election counting, production line reporting, and credit card billing.
- Streaming handles data in real-time. Unlike batch processing, there's no waiting until the next batch processing interval, and data processed as individual pieces rather than being processed a batch at a time.
    - Retail purchaisng real-time system, and ride-sharing apps.

- Job roles: database adminsitrator, data engineer, data analyst.
- Database Administrator: manage databases, assign permissions, manage backups, restore data
    - Design, implementation maintenance, and operational aspects.
    - Availability and consistent performance and optimizations
    - Implementation of policies, tools, and processes
    - Security management
    - Installing and upgrading the database server and application tools, enrolling users and maintaining system security, backing up and restoring databases in case of any failures.
    - Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, pgAdmin for PostgreSQL, MySQL Workbench, Azure Data Studio.
    - SQL Server Management Studio: generate Transact-SQL scripts for almost all of functionality that SSMS provides. This gives the DBA the ability to schedule and automate many common tasks.
- Data Engineer:
    - Design and implement data related assets: data ingestion pipelines, transformation activities, and data stores for analytical workloads.
        - Collaborating with stakeholders to design and implement data-related assets that include data ingestion pipelines, cleansing and transformation activities, and data stores for analytical workloads.
    - Apply cleansing routines
    - Identify business rules
    - Turn data into useful information
    - Ensure data privacy, manage and monitor data stores and data pipelines
    - Aligning data architecture and business requirements
    - Indentifying ways to improve data reliability, efficiency, and quality.
    - Conducting research for industry and business questions.
    - Deploying sophisticated analytics programs, machine learning, and statistical methods.
    - Preparing data for predictive and prescriptive modeling and using data to discover tasks that can be automated.
- Data Analyts: enable organizations to make informed decisions
    - Explore and analyze data
    - Create visualizations and charts
    - Enable advanced analytics
    - Finding hidden patterns using data
    - Making large or complex data more accessible, understandable, and usable.
    - Power BI is turn unrelated sources of data into coherent, visually immersive, and interactive insights.
### Microsoft Azure
- Cloud computing is a way to rent compute power and storage from someone else's data center. When you're done using them you give them back your build only for what you use. Instead of maintanining CPUs and storage in your data center, you rent them for the time that you need them.
- Provides computing services over the internet using a pay-as-you-go pricing model.
    - In a consumption-based model, you don’t need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that they may or may not use to its full capacity.
- Azure runs business applications by providing global scale consistency and seamless integration, with on-premises environments.
- Azure Marketplace that the place you can find, try, buy, and deploy the software and services you need to build new solutions and manage your cloud infrastructure.
    - You can provision end-to-end solutions quickly and reliably, hosted in your own Azure environment.
- Azure Services:
    - Compute Services: virtual machines, serverless, containers.
    - Cloud Storage: disks attached to virtual machines, vault shares or databases.
    - Networking: set-up private network connections on-premises environments, and configure and control traffic into and out of Azure efficiently.
    - App Hosting: run the entire web application on a managed platform in Windows or Linux.
    - Artificial Intelligence: machine learning, prebuilt cognitive services.
    - Internet of Things: integrate sensors and devices and manage them with IoT hubs.
    - Integration: logic apps and services bus connect applications and services and allow for workflows to orchestrate business processes.
    - Security: global security intelligence monitoring. 
- List of [Azure Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products)
### Cloud Computing Advantages
- The benefits of cloud computing: high availability, scalability, elasticity, agility, geo-distribution, disaster recovery.
    - With Agility, cloud-based resources can be deployed and configured quickly as your application requirements change.
- With vertical scaling, computing capacity can be increased by additional RAM or CPUs to a virtual machine. You can scale vertically by adding additional virtual machines to your configuration.
- With horizontal scaling, computing capicity can be increased by adding instances of resource.
- Capital expenditure (CapEX) is the upfront spending of money on physical infrastructure and then deducting that upfront expense over time.
- Operational expenditure (OpEX) is where you spend money on products or services and are build for them at the moment of use.
- Lowers your operating costs that you don't have up-front costs.
- Add resources that readily available, according to your needs.
- Pay for additional resources when they are needed or stop paying for resources that are no longer needed.

- [Service Models in Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/align-requirements-in-azure/) <br>
![Cloud Service Models](/assets/cloud_service_models.png)
- The PaaS cloud service model is a managed hosting environment. In this model the cloud provider manages the vitural machines and networking resources. The cloud tenant deploys their applications into this managed hosting environment.
- The IaaS is the cloud service model that is closest to managing physical servers. In this model the cloud provider keeps the hardware up to date but operating system maintenance and network configuration are left to the cloud tenant.

- Serverless Computing enables developers to build applications faster by eliminating the need for them to manage infrastructure.
- [Private, Public, and Hybrid clouds](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-are-private-public-hybrid-clouds/)

## Concepts of Relational and Non-relational Data
### Relational Data
- The main characteristics of relational databases:
    - All data is tabular. Each instance of an entity is a row in the table, and each property is defined as a column.
    - All row have the same set of columns
    - A table can contain any number of rows.
    - A primary key uniquely identifies each row in a table.
    - A foreign key references rows in another related table.
- Each row in a table contains the data for a single entity or record in that table.
- The primary key indicates the column or combinatioin of columns, that uniquely identify each row.
    - The primary key can be used to create relationships between tables.
- A foreign key references rows in another, related table. For each value in the foreign key column, there should be a row with the same value in the corresponding primary key column in the other table.
- A clustered index physically reorganizes a table by the index key.
- Normalization: split an entity into more than one table.
- Data modified infrequently: more indexes may improve query performance.
- Data modified frequently: more indexes may affect performance.
- If a table is queried infrequently, but subject to a large number of inserts, updates, and deletes (such as a table involved in OLTP), then creating indexes on that table can slow your system down.
- An SQL view is a virtual table, while an index can improve the speed of data retrieval
    - A view as a storage query --> immediate access to the relevant data.
- Benefits of a cloud-based approach to DB Management Systems:
    - Data can be backed up regularly
    - Scaling up and scaling out can be handled in many cases with no or minimal downtime.
    - Organisations only have to pay for the resources they use
- Azure offers serveral PaaS solutions for relational databases: Azure SQL Database, Azure DB for PostgreSQL, AZ DB for MySQL, AZ DB for MariaDB.

### Non-relational Data
- Non-relational DB do not require a predefined schema. Data can be stored without a predefined schema.
- Store the information for entities in collections or containers rather than relational tables.
- Each entity only has the fields it needs, and these fields can vary between different entities.
- Use cases:
    - IoT & telematics: ingest large amounts of data, quick storage utilized by analytics services, real-time data processing.
    - Retail & marketing: CosmosDB for Windows Store and Xbox Live --> used in the retail industry fro storage and process pipelines.
    - Gaming: database tier crucial, cloud delivers customized and personalized user content, low latency for speed and greater user experience, capability to handle new game launches and feature updates.
    - Web & mobile: Cosmos DB is well suited for modern requirements to deliver rich user experiences.
- When date needs to be ingested very quickly or the query is unknown and unconstrained --> relational DB can be less suitable than a non-relational DB
- Semi-structured data:
    - It's not bound to a table or schema, but can be separated into hierarchies (application can parse and process)
- Unstructured data:
    - Data doesn't naturally contain fields.
    - Audio, video, and other media streams.
- NoSQL non-relational DB:
    - Key-value stores: quickest type for inserting and querying data. Key uniquely identifies the item and value holds the data for the item. Azure Table storage, CosmosDB are key-value store.
    - Document DBs: typically store data in JSON format, XML, YAML, and BSON, text.
        - Does not require all documents have the same structure.
        - Retrieve docs by document key --> unique identifier
        - CosmosDB can only read and write entire documents, update replaces the entire document with a new versioin --> reduce fragmentation in DBs.
        - Ingest large volumes of data
    - Column family DBs:
        - DB holds tabular data with rows and columns, but the columns are divided into groups known as column families.
        - Read and write operations for a row are usually atomic with a single column-family.
        - Apache Cassandra, AZ Cosmos DB.
    - Graph databases:
        - Stores two types of information, nodes and edges.
        - Can efficiently perform queries across the network of nodes and edges and analyze the relationships between entities.
        - Edges can have a direction indicating the nature of the relationship.
        - Gremlin API: standard language for creating and querying in graphs
- CosmosDB supports several common models of non-relational databases, include key-value stores, graph db, document db, and column-family stores. 
- [Data store models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-overview)
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction)

### Data Analytics
- Successful companies make informed decisions to find new opportunities, identify weaknesses, increase efficiency, and improve customer satisfaction.
- Data analytics is the process of examining raw data to uncover trends and discover information used to task and answer questions related to organizational performance. 
- __Data Ingestion and Processing__
    - Fresh and historical data from muiltiple sources.
    - To capture the data and store in db system, set of files, type of fast. It might also perform filtering (reject suspicious, corrupt or duplicated data), transformation (covert to standard form).
    - Processing: takes raw form data, cleans it and converts it into a more meaningful format such as tables (functions, cognitive services, databricks, tools).
    - Build a data warehouse
    - Wrangle data to appropriate formats
    - ELT & ETL (Azure SQL Database): ELT (Data lake support, ideal for large volumes data), ETL (improved data privacy and compliance, does not require specialist skills)
    - Azure Data Factory: data integration service that allows you to create data driven workflows for orchestrating data movement and transforming data at scale. Can create and schedule data driven workflows (ingest data from disparate data stores).
    - Implement data analysis tools and visualizations

Commit message:

dp-900: data analytics (visualization and analytics)

azure_core_data_concepts.md, after:

# Core Data Concepts in Azure
## Core Data Concepts and Roles
- [Microsoft Azure Data Fundamentals Certification (DP-900)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/credentials/certifications/resources/study-guides/dp-900)
    - Relational data, non-relational data, transactional workload, analytical workload
    - 60 exam questions
    - Scenario-based single answer questions, arrange in the correct sequence, drag and drop, mark review.
    - Core data concepts (15-20%), non-relational, and relational data (50-60%), analytics workload (25-30%)
- With the Azure portal, you can build, manage, and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments. Create custom dashboards for an organized view of resources and configure accessibility options for an optimal experience.
- Relational databases typically hold tables represented by rows and columns. Databases that hold tables in this form are called relational databases.
    - Structure data is typically tabular data that is represented by rows and columns in a database.
    - Typically stored in a relational database such as SQL Server or Azure SQL Database
- A key-value store is similar to a relatioinal tables, except that each row can have any number of columns.
- Not all data is structured or even semi-structured.
    - Audio, and video files, and binary data files might not have a specific structure --> unstructured data.
    - It can be stored in Azure Blob storage, Azure Cosmos DB
    - Provisioning: setting-up the database server

- Normalization is the process by which your data is split into a number of well-defined tables, with few columns each, and with references one tables to another.
    - A narrow table is a table with few columns
- A transaction is defined as a sequence of operations that are atomic and the transactional database must adhere to the ACID properties:
    - Transactional systems are often high-volume, sometimes handling many millions of transactions in a single day. The data being processed has to be accessible very quickly. 
    - The work performed by transactional systems is often referred to as Online Transactional Processing (OLTP).
    - Atomicity guarantees that each transaction is treated as a single unit, which either succeeds completely, or fails completely.
    - Consistency ensurses that a transaction can only take the data in the database from one valid state to another.
    - Isolation ensurese the concurrent executioin of transactions leaves the database in the same state that would have been obtained if the transaction were executed sequentially.
    Durability guarantees that once a transaction has been committed, it will be remain commited even if there's system failure such as a power outage or crash.
- Batch processing is suitable for handling large datasets efficiently. Stream processing is intended for individual records or micro-batches consisting of few records.
    - Election counting, production line reporting, and credit card billing.
- Streaming handles data in real-time. Unlike batch processing, there's no waiting until the next batch processing interval, and data processed as individual pieces rather than being processed a batch at a time.
    - Retail purchaisng real-time system, and ride-sharing apps.

- Job roles: database adminsitrator, data engineer, data analyst.
- Database Administrator: manage databases, assign permissions, manage backups, restore data
    - Design, implementation maintenance, and operational aspects.
    - Availability and consistent performance and optimizations
    - Implementation of policies, tools, and processes
    - Security management
    - Installing and upgrading the database server and application tools, enrolling users and maintaining system security, backing up and restoring databases in case of any failures.
    - Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, pgAdmin for PostgreSQL, MySQL Workbench, Azure Data Studio.
    - SQL Server Management Studio: generate Transact-SQL scripts for almost all of functionality that SSMS provides. This gives the DBA the ability to schedule and automate many common tasks.
- Data Engineer:
    - Design and implement data related assets: data ingestion pipelines, transformation activities, and data stores for analytical workloads.
        - Collaborating with stakeholders to design and implement data-related assets that include data ingestion pipelines, cleansing and transformation activities, and data stores for analytical workloads.
    - Apply cleansing routines
    - Identify business rules
    - Turn data into useful information
    - Ensure data privacy, manage and monitor data stores and data pipelines
    - Aligning data architecture and business requirements
    - Indentifying ways to improve data reliability, efficiency, and quality.
    - Conducting research for industry and business questions.
    - Deploying sophisticated analytics programs, machine learning, and statistical methods.
    - Preparing data for predictive and prescriptive modeling and using data to discover tasks that can be automated.
- Data Analyts: enable organizations to make informed decisions
    - Explore and analyze data
    - Create visualizations and charts
    - Enable advanced analytics
    - Finding hidden patterns using data
    - Making large or complex data more accessible, understandable, and usable.
    - Power BI is turn unrelated sources of data into coherent, visually immersive, and interactive insights.
### Microsoft Azure
- Cloud computing is a way to rent compute power and storage from someone else's data center. When you're done using them you give them back your build only for what you use. Instead of maintanining CPUs and storage in your data center, you rent them for the time that you need them.
- Provides computing services over the internet using a pay-as-you-go pricing model.
    - In a consumption-based model, you don’t need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure that they may or may not use to its full capacity.
- Azure runs business applications by providing global scale consistency and seamless integration, with on-premises environments.
- Azure Marketplace that the place you can find, try, buy, and deploy the software and services you need to build new solutions and manage your cloud infrastructure.
    - You can provision end-to-end solutions quickly and reliably, hosted in your own Azure environment.
- Azure Services:
    - Compute Services: virtual machines, serverless, containers.
    - Cloud Storage: disks attached to virtual machines, vault shares or databases.
    - Networking: set-up private network connections on-premises environments, and configure and control traffic into and out of Azure efficiently.
    - App Hosting: run the entire web application on a managed platform in Windows or Linux.
    - Artificial Intelligence: machine learning, prebuilt cognitive services.
    - Internet of Things: integrate sensors and devices and manage them with IoT hubs.
    - Integration: logic apps and services bus connect applications and services and allow for workflows to orchestrate business processes.
    - Security: global security intelligence monitoring. 
- List of [Azure Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products)
### Cloud Computing Advantages
- The benefits of cloud computing: high availability, scalability, elasticity, agility, geo-distribution, disaster recovery.
    - With Agility, cloud-based resources can be deployed and configured quickly as your application requirements change.
- With vertical scaling, computing capacity can be increased by additional RAM or CPUs to a virtual machine. You can scale vertically by adding additional virtual machines to your configuration.
- With horizontal scaling, computing capicity can be increased by adding instances of resource.
- Capital expenditure (CapEX) is the upfront spending of money on physical infrastructure and then deducting that upfront expense over time.
- Operational expenditure (OpEX) is where you spend money on products or services and are build for them at the moment of use.
- Lowers your operating costs that you don't have up-front costs.
- Add resources that readily available, according to your needs.
- Pay for additional resources when they are needed or stop paying for resources that are no longer needed.

- [Service Models in Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/align-requirements-in-azure/) <br>
![Cloud Service Models](/assets/cloud_service_models.png)
- The PaaS cloud service model is a managed hosting environment. In this model the cloud provider manages the vitural machines and networking resources. The cloud tenant deploys their applications into this managed hosting environment.
- The IaaS is the cloud service model that is closest to managing physical servers. In this model the cloud provider keeps the hardware up to date but operating system maintenance and network configuration are left to the cloud tenant.

- Serverless Computing enables developers to build applications faster by eliminating the need for them to manage infrastructure.
- [Private, Public, and Hybrid clouds](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-are-private-public-hybrid-clouds/)

## Concepts of Relational and Non-relational Data
### Relational Data
- The main characteristics of relational databases:
    - All data is tabular. Each instance of an entity is a row in the table, and each property is defined as a column.
    - All row have the same set of columns
    - A table can contain any number of rows.
    - A primary key uniquely identifies each row in a table.
    - A foreign key references rows in another related table.
- Each row in a table contains the data for a single entity or record in that table.
- The primary key indicates the column or combinatioin of columns, that uniquely identify each row.
    - The primary key can be used to create relationships between tables.
- A foreign key references rows in another, related table. For each value in the foreign key column, there should be a row with the same value in the corresponding primary key column in the other table.
- A clustered index physically reorganizes a table by the index key.
- Normalization: split an entity into more than one table.
- Data modified infrequently: more indexes may improve query performance.
- Data modified frequently: more indexes may affect performance.
- If a table is queried infrequently, but subject to a large number of inserts, updates, and deletes (such as a table involved in OLTP), then creating indexes on that table can slow your system down.
- An SQL view is a virtual table, while an index can improve the speed of data retrieval
    - A view as a storage query --> immediate access to the relevant data.
- Benefits of a cloud-based approach to DB Management Systems:
    - Data can be backed up regularly
    - Scaling up and scaling out can be handled in many cases with no or minimal downtime.
    - Organisations only have to pay for the resources they use
- Azure offers serveral PaaS solutions for relational databases: Azure SQL Database, Azure DB for PostgreSQL, AZ DB for MySQL, AZ DB for MariaDB.

### Non-relational Data
- Non-relational DB do not require a predefined schema. Data can be stored without a predefined schema.
- Store the information for entities in collections or containers rather than relational tables.
- Each entity only has the fields it needs, and these fields can vary between different entities.
- Use cases:
    - IoT & telematics: ingest large amounts of data, quick storage utilized by analytics services, real-time data processing.
    - Retail & marketing: CosmosDB for Windows Store and Xbox Live --> used in the retail industry fro storage and process pipelines.
    - Gaming: database tier crucial, cloud delivers customized and personalized user content, low latency for speed and greater user experience, capability to handle new game launches and feature updates (in-game stats, and high-score leaderboards).
    - Web & mobile: Cosmos DB is well suited for modern requirements to deliver rich user experiences (modeling social interactions, integrating with third-party services, and rich personalized experiences).
- When date needs to be ingested very quickly or the query is unknown and unconstrained --> relational DB can be less suitable than a non-relational DB
- Semi-structured data:
    - It's not bound to a table or schema, but can be separated into hierarchies (application can parse and process)
    - Contains fields, only define the fields that needed on a per-entity basis.
- Unstructured data:
    - Data doesn't naturally contain fields.
    - Audio, video, and other media streams.
- NoSQL non-relational DB:
    - Key-value stores: quickest type for inserting and querying data. Key uniquely identifies the item and value holds the data for the item. Azure Table storage, CosmosDB are key-value store.
    - Document DBs: typically store data in JSON format, XML, YAML, and BSON, text.
        - Contains the entire data for an entity.
        - Does not require all documents have the same structure.
        - Retrieve docs by document key --> unique identifier
        - CosmosDB can only read and write entire documents, update replaces the entire document with a new versioin --> reduce fragmentation in DBs.
        - Ingest large volumes of data
    - Column family DBs:
        - DB holds tabular data with rows and columns, but the columns are divided into groups known as column families.
        - Read and write operations for a row are usually atomic with a single column-family.
        - Apache Cassandra, AZ Cosmos DB.
    - Graph databases:
        - Stores two types of information, nodes and edges.
        - Can efficiently perform queries across the network of nodes and edges and analyze the relationships between entities.
        - Edges can have a direction indicating the nature of the relationship.
        - Gremlin API: standard language for creating and querying in graphs
- CosmosDB supports several common models of non-relational databases, include key-value stores, graph db, document db, and column-family stores. 
- [Data store models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-overview)
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction)

### Data Analytics
- Successful companies make informed decisions to find new opportunities, identify weaknesses, increase efficiency, and improve customer satisfaction.
- Data analytics is the process of examining raw data to uncover trends and discover information used to task and answer questions related to organizational performance. 
- __Data Ingestion and Processing__
    - Fresh and historical data from muiltiple sources.
    - To capture the data and store in db system, set of files, type of fast. It might also perform filtering (reject suspicious, corrupt or duplicated data), transformation (covert to standard form).
    - Processing: takes raw form data, cleans it and converts it into a more meaningful format such as tables (functions, cognitive services, databricks, tools).
    - Build a data warehouse
    - Wrangle data to appropriate formats. Wrangling is the process by which you transform and map raw data into a more useful format for analysis. It can involve writing code to capture, filter, clean, combine, and aggregate data from many sources.
    - ELT & ETL (Azure SQL Database): ELT (Data lake support, ideal for large volumes data), ETL (improved data privacy and compliance, does not require specialist skills)
    - Azure Data Factory: data integration service that allows you to create data driven workflows for orchestrating data movement and transforming data at scale. Can create and schedule data driven workflows (ingest data from disparate data stores).
    - Implement data analysis tools and visualizations
- __Data Visualization__
    - The graphical representation of information and data by using visual elements like charts, graphs and maps.
    - Provide an accessible way to spot and understand trends, outliers, and patterns in data.
    - Business Intelligence (BI) refers to technologies, applications, and practices for the collection, integration, analysis, and presentation of business information. The purpose of business intelliigence is to support better decision-making.
    - The most common forms: bar, column, line, matrix, key influencers, treemaps, scatter, dotplot and filled map.
    - Matrix charts display summative tabular data to be used in reports and dashboards.
    - A filled map to display how a value differs in proportion across a geography or region (geographical data).
    - A key influencers chart displays the major contributors to a selected result or value. Key influencers are a great choice to help understand the factors that influence a key metric.
        - For example, what influences customers to place a second order or why sales were so high last June.
- __Data Analytics__
    - Examining, transforming, and arranging data --> study and extract useful information.
    - Descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, prescriptive, and cognitive analytics.
    - Descriptive analytics helps answer questions about what has happened, based on historical data. DA techniques summarize large datasets.
    - Diagnostic analytics helps answer questions about why things happened.
