azure-data-enineering-dp-203/azure_de.md, before:

# Microsoft Azure for Data Engineering
- Describe Azure technologies that analyze text and images and relational, non-relational, or streaming data.
- Describe common data engineering practices.
- High-level architecting process for a data engineering project.
- Choose Microsoft Azure data technologies that meet different business needs and scale to meet demand securely.
- Exam DP-203:
  - Design and Implement Data Storage (40-45%)
  - Design and Develop Data Processing (25-30%)
  - Design and Implement Data Security (10-15%)
  - Monitor and Optimize Data Storage adn Data Processing (10-15%)
## The Evolving World of Data and the Data Engineer
- A data engineer deals with data that can be structured, unstructured, or aggregated. Structured data can be stored in Azure Blob storage, Azure SQL Database, and Azure SQL Data Warehouse.
  - As a data engineer, you'll extract raw data from a structured or unstructured data pool and migrate it to a staging data repository. Because the data source might have a different structure than the target destination, you'll transform the data from the source schema to the destination schema.
- It is challenging to align on-premises expenses with actual usage. With on-premises servers, the expenses will almost never align with actual use.
- Cloud systems track costs by subscriptions. A subscription can be based on usage measured in compute units, hours, or transactions.
- One benefit of Cloud environments requires no capital investment. T — You pay for a service or product as you use it i.e., pay-as-you-go pricing.  Moving servers and services to the cloud also reduces operational costs.
- High availability duplicates customer content for redundancy and meets SLAs in Azure.
- The lift-and-shift strategy provides immediate benefits, including higher availability, lower operational costs, and the ability to transfer workloads from one datacenter to another.
- Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) is a typical process for ingesting data from an on-premises database to an on-premises data warehouse.
- In an ELT process, data is extracted and loaded in its native format. This change reduces the time required to load the data into a destination system. The change also limits resource contention on the data sources.
- Azure Data Factory provides robust resources and nearly 100 enterprise connectors. It Also allows you to transform data by a wide variety of languages. It can orchestrate the movement of data between various data stores.
- __The Tasks of Data Engineer:__
  - A data engineer's data work process that helps meet business requirements is called data wrangling (large scale).
  - Primary responsibilities include using services and tools to ingest, egress, and transform data from multiple sources. Including managing, monitoring, and ensure the security and privacy of data to satisfy business neeeds.
  - Workflow: source --> prepare --> ingest --> analyze --> consume.
  - During the extraction process, the data and its source are defined.
  - Data engineer: data store, secured, ETL/ELT (monitoring, logging). 
  - Data scientist: descriptive analytics, predictive analytics, deep learning, data wrangling, feature engineering.
  - AI engineer: AI services, cognitive services (voice, vision, language), APIs, Embed, Store.
  - A work plan to implement ETL operations should include a provisioning workflow and a holistic workflow.
  - Business case: create a visualization of the data's history for Contoso's Chief Medical Officer
    - Azure IoT Hub: capture real-time data from the ICU's IoT devices.
    - Azure Stream Analytics: stream and enrich the IoT data to create windows and aggregations, and to integrate Azure ML.
    - Azure Data Lake Storage Generation 2: store the biometric data at high-speed.
    - Azure Data Factory: perform the extract load transform and final load.
    - Azure Synapse Analytics: provide data warehousing and big data engineering services to support the data needs.
    - Power BI: create the patient dashboard. Showing real-time telemetry about the patient's condition, patient's recent history.
    - Holistic workflow: Setup IoT Hub (capture data) --> connect to Stream Analytics (window creation, aggregate)
      - IoT Hub moves the streaming data to Azure Data Lake Storage by using Azure Functions
      - Setup Azure Functions to store the Stream Analytics aggregates in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2.
      - Use Azure Data Factory to load data from the Data Lake into Azure Synapse Analytics to support data needs.
      - In parallel, connect the Azure Machine Learning Services to Azure Data Lake Storage to perform predictive analytics.
      - Connect Power BI to stream analytics to pull the real-time aggregates for the patient data.
      - Connect Azure Synapse Analytics to pull the historical data to create a combined dashboard

Commit message:

azure dp-203: core microsoft azure data platform technologies

azure-data-enineering-dp-203/azure_de.md, after:

# Microsoft Azure for Data Engineering
- Describe Azure technologies that analyze text and images and relational, non-relational, or streaming data.
- Describe common data engineering practices.
- High-level architecting process for a data engineering project.
- Choose Microsoft Azure data technologies that meet different business needs and scale to meet demand securely.
- Exam DP-203:
  - Design and Implement Data Storage (40-45%)
  - Design and Develop Data Processing (25-30%)
  - Design and Implement Data Security (10-15%)
  - Monitor and Optimize Data Storage adn Data Processing (10-15%)

## The Evolving World of Data and the Data Engineer
- A data engineer deals with data that can be structured, unstructured, or aggregated. Structured data can be stored in Azure Blob storage, Azure SQL Database, and Azure SQL Data Warehouse.
  - As a data engineer, you'll extract raw data from a structured or unstructured data pool and migrate it to a staging data repository. Because the data source might have a different structure than the target destination, you'll transform the data from the source schema to the destination schema.
- It is challenging to align on-premises expenses with actual usage. With on-premises servers, the expenses will almost never align with actual use.
- Cloud systems track costs by subscriptions. A subscription can be based on usage measured in compute units, hours, or transactions.
- One benefit of Cloud environments requires no capital investment. T — You pay for a service or product as you use it i.e., pay-as-you-go pricing.  Moving servers and services to the cloud also reduces operational costs.
- High availability duplicates customer content for redundancy and meets SLAs in Azure.
- The lift-and-shift strategy provides immediate benefits, including higher availability, lower operational costs, and the ability to transfer workloads from one datacenter to another.
- Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) is a typical process for ingesting data from an on-premises database to an on-premises data warehouse.
- In an ELT process, data is extracted and loaded in its native format. This change reduces the time required to load the data into a destination system. The change also limits resource contention on the data sources.
- Azure Data Factory provides robust resources and nearly 100 enterprise connectors. It Also allows you to transform data by a wide variety of languages. It can orchestrate the movement of data between various data stores.
- __The Tasks of Data Engineer:__
  - A data engineer's data work process that helps meet business requirements is called data wrangling (large scale).
  - Primary responsibilities include using services and tools to ingest, egress, and transform data from multiple sources. Including managing, monitoring, and ensure the security and privacy of data to satisfy business needs.
  - Workflow: source --> prepare --> ingest --> analyze --> consume.
  - During the extraction process, the data and its source are defined.
  - Data engineer: data store, secured, ETL/ELT (monitoring, logging). 
  - Data scientist: descriptive analytics, predictive analytics, deep learning, data wrangling, feature engineering.
  - AI engineer: AI services, cognitive services (voice, vision, language), APIs, Embed, Store.
  - A work plan to implement ETL operations should include a provisioning workflow and a holistic workflow.
  - Business case: create a visualization of the data's history for Contoso's Chief Medical Officer
    - Azure IoT Hub: capture real-time data from the ICU's IoT devices.
    - Azure Stream Analytics: stream and enrich the IoT data to create windows and aggregations, and to integrate Azure ML.
    - Azure Data Lake Storage Generation 2: store the biometric data at high-speed.
    - Azure Data Factory: perform the extract load transform and final load.
    - Azure Synapse Analytics: provide data warehousing and big data engineering services to support the data needs.
    - Power BI: create the patient dashboard. Showing real-time telemetry about the patient's condition, patient's recent history.
    - Holistic workflow: Setup IoT Hub (capture data) --> connect to Stream Analytics (window creation, aggregate)
      - IoT Hub moves the streaming data to Azure Data Lake Storage by using Azure Functions
      - Setup Azure Functions to store the Stream Analytics aggregates in Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2.
      - Use Azure Data Factory to load data from the Data Lake into Azure Synapse Analytics to support data needs.
      - In parallel, connect the Azure Machine Learning Services to Azure Data Lake Storage to perform predictive analytics.
      - Connect Power BI to stream analytics to pull the real-time aggregates for the patient data.
      - Connect Azure Synapse Analytics to pull the historical data to create a combined dashboard.

## Services on the Microsoft Azure Data Platform
- Relational database systems hold structured data, making them difficult to react to changing data requirements.
- Azure Blob: object store for text and binary data and is the cheapest option for this type of storage.
- Azure Files: file share for cloud or on premises deployments.
- Azure Data Lake Storage: Hadoop compatible data repository that can store any size or type data.
  - Unlimited scalability
  - Zone-redundant storage
  - POSIX compliance
  - Security support for access control lists (ACLs)
  - An optimized ABFS driver that's designed for big data analytics
  - Data Lake Storage Gen2 Queries: Azure Blob Storage API, Azure Data Lake System API.
- Azure Cosmos DB (NoSQL): can deploy using API models of SQL API, MongDB, Cassandra, Gremlin, Table API.
- Azure SQL Databases: OLTP
  - Can use Transact-SQL (T-SQL) techniques for ingesting data and from the movement of data using Azure Data Factory.
- Azure Synapse Analytics: brings together enterprise data warehousing and big data analytics, data integration, and visualization into a single environment.
- Azure Stream Analytics: process streaming data and respond to data anomalies in real time.
  - You can use simple SQL constructs to write complex temporal queries and analytics.
  - Azure Synapse Pipelines leverages the capabilities of Azure Data Factory and is the cloud-based ETL and data integration service that allows you to create data-driven workflows for orchestrating data movement and transforming data at scale.
- Azure HDInsight: help you ingest, process analyze big data.
  - HBase is a NoSQL database built on Hadoop that is commonly used for search engines.
- Azure Databricks provides one-click setup, streamlined workflows, and an interactive workspace for Spark-based applications.
- Azure Purview: unified data map, search data faster, analyze data in more depth.
  - Azure Data Catalog is a central place where an organization's users can contribute their knowledge. Together, they build a community of data sources that the organization owns.
- Event Hubs uses a partitioned consumer model to scale out your data stream and is integrated into the big data and analytics services of Azure including Databricks, Stream Analytics, ADLS, and HDInsight.
